#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Monday,Wednesday

= Introduction =

Add your content here.


= Outline =

Django/App Engine Presentation

Why Django?
  # Brief History
    * Lawrence Journal-World & News
    * Adrian Holovaty, Simon Willison, Jacob Kaplan-Moss
    * Initial Purpose and Philosophy
  # What makes Django appealing?
    * Installation is Easy
    * URL Patterns are Regular Expressions
    * Free Admin Site (well practically free)
    * Generic Views
    * Template Engine (lots of filters and tags it is also extendable through template tags)
    * Template Tags

Why App Engine?
  # Brief History
  # What makes App Engine appealing?
    * It is $free.99.
    * No hassling with hardware
    * No system administration
    * Automatic scaling and load balancing
    * Datastore (BigTable)
    * Very similar to Django “out of the box”

What are the limitations of using Django and GAE together?
  # No Relational Databases (but there is the DataStore)
  # Python Only
  # No access to the file system
  # Limit of 500 MB of Persistent Storage (in the Beta Period)
  # 1MB File Size limit per file
  # Models are different
  # You cannot use httplib but you can use urlfetch (Google’s version)
  # No Cron
  # No non appspot.com SSL
  # No “out of the box” support for the following (although the app-engine-patch project is working on them):
    * Django/bin
    * Django/contrib/admin
    * Django/contrib/auth
    * Django/contrib/databrowse
    * Django/test
    * Generic views

What do I need to setup the dev environment?
  # Python 2.5
  # Google SDK
  # Django 1.0 (or you could use the 0.96 version that comes with the SDK)
  # App-engine-patch 
  # Eclipse (optional)
  # pyDev (optional)
  # Web Tools Platform (WTP) – you can install this right from Ganymede (optional)

Overview of Django’s Application Structure 
  # Settings
  # Models
  # Views
  # URLs
  # Forms
  # Views
  # Cache
  # Tests

Ok, now let’s write some code!!
  # Settings
  # Models
  # Views
  # URLs
  # Forms
  # Views
  # Cache
  # Tests

Questions & Answers

