#summary chance for decathlon prototypes to be shown to judges for mock feedback prior to submitting final entry
#labels Thursday

= What? =

The Dragon's Den will take place throughout Thursday to provide those competing in the DeveloperDecathlon to get feedback from a mock panel of judges <- THE DRAGON'S DEN.  We'll have three judges who will give feedback on: presentation, usability and technical implications. 

Judges Include:
  * Rachel Bruce will provide feedback on overall presentation
  * Mark van Harmelen will provide feedback on usability 
  * Dave Tarrant will provide feedback on technical implications 

= Where? =

The Dragon's Den will take place in Lecture Theatre B36.  You will need to wait outside in the hallway until someone comes to bring you into the room.  There will be access to a data projector and a podium to present from; where the judges will be the only people in the room to observe and feedback.

= Sign-Up Here =

If you would like to present your prototype idea to these judges please sign up here for a ten minute time slot (there will be 5 minutes of Q&A feedback after your presentation).  Please note, you will be stopped at ten minutes exactly so as to keep from the schedule running over.
  
  * 11.45-12.00 Chris Gutteridge SplashURL.net
  * 12.15-12.30 Mark Borkum, Nick Catto, Sam Easterby-Smith - Semantic Tags
  * LUNCH
  * 13.30-13.45 name of presenters and name of prototype
  * 13.45-14.00 Eddie Shin, Juliette Culver, Matt Zumwalt, Chris Wilper - LillyPad
  * 14:00-14:15 Ian Morrison, Andrew Wasilczuk, Ishmal Malik - Foxy Proxy
  * 14:15-14:30 Stephen Vickers, Michael Aherne, George Kroner - SpACE
  * 14:30-14:45 name of presenters and name of prototype
  * 14:45-15:00 Tony Hirst unCertain Reactive
 